reference/tools: refine documents for sync-diff-inspector (#1478)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/overview.md

---
title: sync-diff-inspector User Guide
summary: Use sync-diff-inspector to compare data and repair inconsistent data.
category: tools
---

# sync-diff-inspector User Guide

[sync-diff-inspector](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools/tree/master/sync_diff_inspector) is a tool used to compare data stored in the databases with the MySQL protocol. For example, it can compare the data in MySQL with that in TiDB, the data in MySQL with that in MySQL, or the data in TiDB with that in TiDB. In addition, you can also use this tool to repair data in the scenario where a small amount of data is inconsistent.

This guide introduces the key features of sync-diff-inspector and describes how to configure and use this tool. You can download it at [tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz).

## Key features

* Compare the table schema and data
* Generate the SQL statements used to repair data if the data inconsistency exists

> * Support [data check for different database names or table names](/dev/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/route-diff.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support [data check for tables with schema or table names](/dev/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/route-diff.md)
```

    # Configuration of the source data
    [[table-config.source-tables]]
        # The instance ID of the source schema
        instance-id = "source-1"
        # The name of the source schema
        schema = "test"
        # The name of the source table
        table  = "test1"

######################### Databases config #########################

# Configuration of the instance in the source database
[[source-db]]
    host = "127.0.0.1"
    port = 3306
    user = "root"
    password = "123456"
    # The ID of the instance in the source database, the unique identifier of a database instance
    instance-id = "source-1"
    # Uses the snapshot function of TiDB.
    # If enabled, the history data is used for comparison.
    # snapshot = "2016-10-08 16:45:26"

# Configuration of the instance in the target database
[target-db]
    host = "127.0.0.1"
    port = 4000
    user = "root"
    password = "123456"
    # Uses the snapshot function of TiDB.
    # If enabled, the history data is used for comparison.
    # snapshot = "2016-10-08 16:45:26"
```

### Run sync-diff-inspector

Run the following command:

``` bash
./bin/sync_diff_inspector --config=./config.toml
```

> This command outputs a check report to the log and describes the check result of each table. If data inconsistency exists, the SQL statements used to fix inconsistency are stored to the `fix.sql` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command outputs a check report to the log and describes the check result of each table. If data inconsistency exists, sync-diff-inspector generates the SQL statements to fix inconsistent data and stores these statements in a `fix.sql` file.
```

### Note

> - sync-diff-inspector consumes certain server resources when checking data. Avoid using sync-diff-inspector to check data during peak business hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- sync-diff-inspector consumes a certain amount of server resources when checking data. Avoid using sync-diff-inspector to check data during peak business hours.
```

- TiDB uses the `utf8_bin` collation. If you need to compare the data in MySQL with that in TiDB, pay attention to the collation configuration of MySQL tables. If the primary key or unique key is the `varchar` type and the collation configuration in MySQL differs from that in TiDB, then the final check result might be incorrect because of the collation issue. You need to add collation to the sync-diff-inspector configuration file.

> - sync-diff-inspector divides data into chunks first according to TiDB statistics and you should try to guarantee the accuracy of the statistics. You can manually run the `analyze table {table_name}` command when the TiDB server's *workload is light*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- sync-diff-inspector divides data into chunks first according to TiDB statistics and you need to guarantee the accuracy of the statistics. You can manually run the `analyze table {table_name}` command when the TiDB server's *workload is light*.
```

* Generate the SQL statements used to repair data if the data inconsistency exists
* Support [data check for different library names or table names](/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/route-diff.md)
* Support [data check in the sharding scenario](/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/shard-diff.md)
* Support [data check for TiDB upstream-downstream clusters](/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/tidb-diff.md)

## Usage of sync-diff-inspector

### Restrictions on usage

* At present, online check is not supported. It is necessary to ensure that no data is written into the upstream-downstream checklist, or that data in a certain range is not changed. You can check data in this range by setting `range`.

* `JSON`, `BIT`, `BINARY`, `BLOB` and other types of data are not supported. When data check is being perform, you can set `ignore-columns` to skip checking these types of data.

* `FLOAT`, `DOUBLE` and other floating point types are implemented differently in TiDB and MySQL, so checksum is calculated differently in TiDB and MySQL. If the data checks are inconsistent due to these data types, you must set `ignore-columns` to skip checking these columns.

### Database privilege

> sync-diff-inspector needs to obtain the information of table schema, to query data, and to build the checkpoint library to save breakpoint information. The required database privileges are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sync-diff-inspector needs to obtain the information of table schema, to query data, and to build the checkpoint database to save breakpoint information. The required database privileges are as follows:
```

* Upstream database
    - `SELECT` (check data for comparison)

>     - `SHOW_DATABASES` (view library name)

Author: all replaced with `database`.

chunk-size = 1000

# The number of goroutines created to check data
check-thread-count = 4

# The proportion of sampling check. If you set it to 100, all the data is checked.
sample-percent = 100

# If enabled, the chunk's checksum is calculated and data is compared by checksum.
# If disabled, data is compared line by line.
use-checksum = true

# If it is set to true, data is checked only by calculating checksum. Data is not checked after inspection, even if the upstream and downstream checksums are inconsistent.
only-use-checksum = false

# Whether to use the checkpoint of the last check. If it is enabled, the inspector only checks the last unverified chunks and chunks that failed the verification.
use-checkpoint = true

# If it is set to true, data check is ignored.
# If it is set to false, data is checked.
ignore-struct-check = false

# If it is set to true, the table struct comparison is ignored.
# If set to false, the table struct is compared.
ignore-struct-check = false

# The name of the file which saves the SQL statements used to repair data
fix-sql-file = "fix.sql"

######################### Tables config #########################

> <https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/dev/reference/tools/sync-diff-inspector/overview.md>

Reviewer 2: what is this link means?

Author: Deleted.
